notes/chapter_3_notes.md, before:

# 3: Unearthing Concepts

## 3.1 Listening to Change

>Most cost-effective code is as good as necessary - no better

chosing to refactor now rather than later may cost opportunities (working on other problems)

new requirements tell you:
* exactly how the code should change - no need to speculate about the future
* imposes higher standards on affected code - code that needs to be change must be changeable

### 99 Bottles New Requirement!!!

* feature request: output "1 six-pack" any time it currently says "6 bottles"
  * **NB:** this is specific to "1 six-pack"
  * not multiples of six packs
  * "1 six-pack"
  * do not read further into requirements or try to predict the future.

Clarify requirements

Write the minimum necessary code (this actually leaves your code more flexible for the future than trying to make it flexible before you know how it needs to flex)

>Conditionals are the bane of OO

### Listing 3.2: Compounding Contidional Sins

We started with 4 branches, now we have 6.

>Conditionals breed, and now that this one has started reproducing, you must do something to stop it.

## 3.2: Starting with the Open/Closed Principle

We're into the SOLID principles!

Open/Closed: "open for extension and closed for modification"

Code is open to new requirements when you can meet the requirement without changing the code.

(refresher!)
#### SOLID:
**Single Responsibility**<br>
methods in a class should be cohesive around a single purpose<br>
**Open - Closed**<br>
Objects should be open for extension, but closed for modification<br>
**Liskov Substitution**<br>
Subclasses should be substitutable for their superclasses.<br>
**Interface Segregation**<br>
Objects should not be forced to depend on methods they don't use.<br>
**Dependency Inversion**<br>
Depend on abstractions, not on concretions.

### Open-Closed principle
You should not conflate the process of moving code around, of refactoring, with the act of adding new features

Separate adding new features from "cleaning up code"

When you get a new requirement:
1. rearrange/refactor existing code so it's open to the new feature
2. add the new code

adding the "six-pack" requirement required editing the conditional SO Shameless Green is not _open_ to this new feature.

(see open/closed flowchart)

1. is code open to new requirement?<br>
  a. yes: write the new bit of code<br>
  b. no: do you know how to alter the code to make it open to the new requirement?<br>
      i. yes: make alteration then return to **1**<br>
      ii. no: look for code smells, isolate these flaws, correct one, return to **1** repeat until the answer to **1** is *a* and you can move forward with new code.<br>

## 3.3 Recognising Code Smells

To successfully improve code within/as preparation for a smaller piece of work is to isolate and correct them one at a time.

Refactoring book sited:
[Refactoring: Improving the Design of Existing Code](https://martinfowler.com/books/refactoring.html)
- names many common flaws
- gives "recipes" to fix them

This book is where we got the name "code smells" 

Jay Fields has done a [Ruby version](https://martinfowler.com/books/refactoringRubyEd.html) of the book.

Code Smells mentioned (solution):
- Duplicated code* (abstract away duplication)
- Large class (divide class into several)
- Divergent change
- Feature envy
- Primitive obsession
- Inappropriate intimacy
- Shotgun surgery
- Switch statement*

* smells actually found in the 99 bottles book/exercise

To look for code smells, start with what you don't like in the code. 

## 3.4 Identifying the best point of attack
(looking at cg_bottles.rb - which appears to be the shameless green version)

```ruby
  def verse(count)
    case count
    when 0
      "No more bottles of beer on the wall, no more bottles of beer.\nGo to the store and buy some more, 99 bottles of beer on the wall.\n"
    when 1
      "1 bottle of beer on the wall, 1 bottle of beer.\nTake one down and pass it around, no more bottles of beer on the wall.\n"
    when 2
      "2 bottles of beer on the wall, 2 bottles of beer.\nTake one down and pass it around, 1 bottle of beer on the wall.\n"
    when 6
      "1 six-pack of beer on the wall, 1 six-pack of beer.\nTake one down and pass it around, 5 bottles of beer on the wall.\n"
    when 7
      "7 bottles of beer on the wall, 7 bottles of beer.\nTake one down and pass it around, 1 six-pack of beer on the wall.\n"
    else
      "#{count} bottles of beer on the wall, #{count} bottles of beer.\nTake one down and pass it around, #{count-1} bottles of beer on the wall.\n"
    end
  end
```

case statement - "Switch statements" smell
- branches in this case statement contain Duplicated code (also a smell)

Duplicated code is the most straightforward and so addressed first. 

we don't know that removing the duplication will magically make this class more open to the six pack feature but it is _likely_ a step along the way.

## 3.5 Refactoring systematically

As defined by Martin Fowler in his book:
"Refactoring is the process of changing a software system in such a way that it does not alter the external behaviour of the code yet improves internal structure"

2 steps to implementing new requirements:
- rearrange existing code so it is open to new requirement
- write the code to meet new requirement

Refactoring should be done alongside testing to ensure that:
- you don't break the existing code
- you can discover potential flaws in the tests

tests that make assertions about _how_ things are done rather than test expected outcomes are most likely to break during refactoring. 

If the tests are a problem, you now have a new step in the process:

~2~3 steps to implementing new requirements:
- improve the tests
- rearrange existing code so it is open to new requirement
- write the code to meet new requirement


## 3.6 following the flocking rules... 

on the name - based on "flock" as in group of birds (except crows)
- a flock's behaviour can give the impression of being centrally coordinated BUT it's individual birds
- group's behaviour is the result of series of small decisions made by each individual 
- these decisions are guided by these rules:
1. Alignment - steer towards average heading of neighbors
2. separation - don't get too close to neighbors
3. cohesion steer towards average position of the flock

[Science of Sync](https://www.ted.com/talks/steven_strogatz_the_science_of_sync) TED talk mentioned [on youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IiXaZGZqpVI)

to find what needs to be abstracted to reduce duplication in the case statement we follow these rules:

### Flocking rules
1. Select the things that are most alike
2. Find the smallest difference between them
3. Make the simplest change that will remove that difference

### 4 steps to changing code:
1. parse the new code (i.e. confirm syntax is valid)
2. parse and execute it (proving the code runs without errors)
3. parse, execute and use it's results (ensuring it returns correct result)
4. delete unused code.

making small changes give precise error messages if you make a big change and get an error you don't understand, revert it and look to make a smaller change.

## 3.7 Converging on Abstractions
### 3.7.1 Focusing on difference
(start here, start reading from the start of this bit)

See the sameness, acknowledge it, feel a bit zen, then look for the difference. 

difference is more meaningful. 
think about DRYing out difference

Book [Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software](https://www.amazon.com/Design-Patterns-Elements-Reusable-Object-Oriented/dp/0201633612) mentioned 
/chapter3
[ReadMe](../README.md)

Commit message:

notes and making the first change to make branch 2 and else identical, need to run tests

notes/chapter_3_notes.md, after:

# 3: Unearthing Concepts

## 3.1 Listening to Change

>Most cost-effective code is as good as necessary - no better

chosing to refactor now rather than later may cost opportunities (working on other problems)

new requirements tell you:
* exactly how the code should change - no need to speculate about the future
* imposes higher standards on affected code - code that needs to be change must be changeable

### 99 Bottles New Requirement!!!

* feature request: output "1 six-pack" any time it currently says "6 bottles"
  * **NB:** this is specific to "1 six-pack"
  * not multiples of six packs
  * "1 six-pack"
  * do not read further into requirements or try to predict the future.

Clarify requirements

Write the minimum necessary code (this actually leaves your code more flexible for the future than trying to make it flexible before you know how it needs to flex)

>Conditionals are the bane of OO

### Listing 3.2: Compounding Contidional Sins

We started with 4 branches, now we have 6.

>Conditionals breed, and now that this one has started reproducing, you must do something to stop it.

## 3.2: Starting with the Open/Closed Principle

We're into the SOLID principles!

Open/Closed: "open for extension and closed for modification"

Code is open to new requirements when you can meet the requirement without changing the code.

(refresher!)
#### SOLID:
**Single Responsibility**<br>
methods in a class should be cohesive around a single purpose<br>
**Open - Closed**<br>
Objects should be open for extension, but closed for modification<br>
**Liskov Substitution**<br>
Subclasses should be substitutable for their superclasses.<br>
**Interface Segregation**<br>
Objects should not be forced to depend on methods they don't use.<br>
**Dependency Inversion**<br>
Depend on abstractions, not on concretions.

### Open-Closed principle
You should not conflate the process of moving code around, of refactoring, with the act of adding new features

Separate adding new features from "cleaning up code"

When you get a new requirement:
1. rearrange/refactor existing code so it's open to the new feature
2. add the new code

adding the "six-pack" requirement required editing the conditional SO Shameless Green is not _open_ to this new feature.

(see open/closed flowchart)

1. is code open to new requirement?<br>
  a. yes: write the new bit of code<br>
  b. no: do you know how to alter the code to make it open to the new requirement?<br>
      i. yes: make alteration then return to **1**<br>
      ii. no: look for code smells, isolate these flaws, correct one, return to **1** repeat until the answer to **1** is *a* and you can move forward with new code.<br>

## 3.3 Recognising Code Smells

To successfully improve code within/as preparation for a smaller piece of work is to isolate and correct them one at a time.

Refactoring book sited:
[Refactoring: Improving the Design of Existing Code](https://martinfowler.com/books/refactoring.html)
- names many common flaws
- gives "recipes" to fix them

This book is where we got the name "code smells" 

Jay Fields has done a [Ruby version](https://martinfowler.com/books/refactoringRubyEd.html) of the book.

Code Smells mentioned (solution):
- Duplicated code* (abstract away duplication)
- Large class (divide class into several)
- Divergent change
- Feature envy
- Primitive obsession
- Inappropriate intimacy
- Shotgun surgery
- Switch statement*

* smells actually found in the 99 bottles book/exercise

To look for code smells, start with what you don't like in the code. 

## 3.4 Identifying the best point of attack
(looking at cg_bottles.rb - which appears to be the shameless green version)

```ruby
  def verse(count)
    case count
    when 0
      "No more bottles of beer on the wall, no more bottles of beer.\nGo to the store and buy some more, 99 bottles of beer on the wall.\n"
    when 1
      "1 bottle of beer on the wall, 1 bottle of beer.\nTake one down and pass it around, no more bottles of beer on the wall.\n"
    when 2
      "2 bottles of beer on the wall, 2 bottles of beer.\nTake one down and pass it around, 1 bottle of beer on the wall.\n"
    when 6
      "1 six-pack of beer on the wall, 1 six-pack of beer.\nTake one down and pass it around, 5 bottles of beer on the wall.\n"
    when 7
      "7 bottles of beer on the wall, 7 bottles of beer.\nTake one down and pass it around, 1 six-pack of beer on the wall.\n"
    else
      "#{count} bottles of beer on the wall, #{count} bottles of beer.\nTake one down and pass it around, #{count-1} bottles of beer on the wall.\n"
    end
  end
```

case statement - "Switch statements" smell
- branches in this case statement contain Duplicated code (also a smell)

Duplicated code is the most straightforward and so addressed first. 

we don't know that removing the duplication will magically make this class more open to the six pack feature but it is _likely_ a step along the way.

## 3.5 Refactoring systematically

As defined by Martin Fowler in his book:
"Refactoring is the process of changing a software system in such a way that it does not alter the external behaviour of the code yet improves internal structure"

2 steps to implementing new requirements:
- rearrange existing code so it is open to new requirement
- write the code to meet new requirement

Refactoring should be done alongside testing to ensure that:
- you don't break the existing code
- you can discover potential flaws in the tests

tests that make assertions about _how_ things are done rather than test expected outcomes are most likely to break during refactoring. 

If the tests are a problem, you now have a new step in the process:

~2~3 steps to implementing new requirements:
- improve the tests
- rearrange existing code so it is open to new requirement
- write the code to meet new requirement


## 3.6 following the flocking rules... 

on the name - based on "flock" as in group of birds (except crows)
- a flock's behaviour can give the impression of being centrally coordinated BUT it's individual birds
- group's behaviour is the result of series of small decisions made by each individual 
- these decisions are guided by these rules:
1. Alignment - steer towards average heading of neighbors
2. separation - don't get too close to neighbors
3. cohesion steer towards average position of the flock

[Science of Sync](https://www.ted.com/talks/steven_strogatz_the_science_of_sync) TED talk mentioned [on youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IiXaZGZqpVI)

to find what needs to be abstracted to reduce duplication in the case statement we follow these rules:

### Flocking rules
1. Select the things that are most alike
2. Find the smallest difference between them
3. Make the simplest change that will remove that difference

### 4 steps to changing code:
1. parse the new code (i.e. confirm syntax is valid)
2. parse and execute it (proving the code runs without errors)
3. parse, execute and use it's results (ensuring it returns correct result)
4. delete unused code.

making small changes give precise error messages if you make a big change and get an error you don't understand, revert it and look to make a smaller change.

## 3.7 Converging on Abstractions
### 3.7.1 Focusing on difference
(start here, start reading from the start of this bit)

See the sameness, acknowledge it, feel a bit zen, then look for the difference. 

difference is more meaningful. 
think about DRYing out difference

Book [Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software](https://www.amazon.com/Design-Patterns-Elements-Reusable-Object-Oriented/dp/0201633612) mentioned 

Goal: encapsulate the concept that varies. 

two examples represent the same abstraction but contain 1 difference, that difference represents a smaller abstraction within the larger one. "if you can name the difference, you've identified the smaller abstraction"

applying the rules of refactoring converts difference to sameness as part of the process
you don't have to identify the abstractions in preparation for refactoring 

in this way a solution is discovered via refactoring. 

for verse case statement:
1. start with the two branches that are most alike and try to make them identical. (answer: `when 2` and the `else` branches are most identical)

###3.7.2 Simplifiying Hard Problems

2. make these two branches identical - ignore all tangents that may arise.


/chapter3
[ReadMe](../README.md)
